# Star Wars Squad Builder

This project actually began as a Coding Challenge presented to one of my students for a potential job. She had 7 days to build a front-end application using Next.js and Tailwind, taking data from a GraphQL API. The goal is to allow users to register, then they can build "squads" of Star Wars characters and save them to review later. A squad must be 3-5 members, and can't have two characters of the same species (since most main characters have a species of "unknown", I chose to let multiple unknowns be on a squad). 

At the time, I had limited experience with both of these technologies, and so I opted to also do the challenge privately in order to feel confident enough to review her code when she needed some help. The front-end uses Next.js version 14, with the Pages router. I am able to fetch the correct data on every page, but I haven't completed styling the views.

The original challenge provided an [API](https://fe-case-study.vercel.app/api/graphql) that appears to be a personal project, perhaps from one of the development team. Comparing the data, I can see that they have used either the free [Star Wars REST API](https://swapi.dev/) or [Star Wars GraphQL API](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/variant/current/explorer) as their base, and built their own GraphQL API with this data. I enjoyed working on the front-end part of this challenge, and I wanted to make sure my code would still run if their API was removed, so I decided to build my own clone of their GraphQL API.

Rather than use a database (I can tell from some of the errors I had while developing, the database used for the challenge API was PostgreSQL), I used NodeCache to cache the original data from the REST API directly on my server. I then reformat the data to match that of the challenge API. User data is saved to MongoDB. I used Apollo Server to build the API, but configured it to be an integration of Express so that I could still serve the static image files separately. 